.TH OBNC-COMPILE 1
.SH NAME
obnc-compile \- compile an Oberon module to C
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obnc-compile
[\fB\-e\fR | \fB\-l\fR]
.IR INFILE
.br
.B obnc-compile
(\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-v\fR)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B obnc-compile
compiles an Oberon module to C. The input filename is expected to end with
.IR .obn ,
.IR .Mod
or
.IR .mod .
All output files (C implementation file, C header file, symbol file etc.) are stored in the subdirectory
.IR .obnc .
.P
The compiler accepts the Oberon language as defined in "The Programming Language Oberon", revision 2013-10-01 / 2016-05-03 (Oberon-07). The module SYSTEM provides the generally applicable procedures plus VAL, as defined in the language report. The underscore character is also accepted as a word separator in identifiers. The target language is ANSI C (C89).
.P
The generated C file uses the exception codes below. If an exception occurs the trap handler is called. By default it writes the exception code to the standard error stream and aborts the program.
.P
E1 = destination array too short for assignment
.br
E2 = array index out of bounds
.br
E3 = nil pointer dereference
.br
E4 = nil procedure variable call
.br
E5 = source in assignment is not an extension of target
.br
E6 = type guard failure
.br
E7 = unmatched expression in case statement
.br
E8 = assertion failure
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e
Create an entry point function (main).
.TP
.BR \-h
Display help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l
Print names of imported modules to standard output and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v
Display version and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OBNC_IMPORT_PATH
See
.BR obnc-path (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Karl Landstr\[:o]m
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR obnc (1),
.BR obnc-path (1)
